PHASES IN MODELLING PROCESS
- Definition and Problem Scoping
- Data Collection and Analysis
- Model Selection and Development
- Model Verification & Validation
- Model Usage and Interpretation
- Model Maintence and Revision

EACH PHASE EXPLAINED
- Definition & Problem Scoping: Here we clealy define the problem or the suitation you want to model with the intended purpose. Determine the stakeholders and their information needs.

- Data Collection & Analysis: Here we gather information and data which are relevant, from different sources. Clean and prepare the data to make sure that it is accurate and complete. while doing so, you should analyze the data to notice patterns, trends and relationships.

- Model Selection and Development: Here you are to first select a modelling technique that is based on the problem you are trying to solve, and the desired outcome. Then develop a model structure. Finally configure the model with real-world data to ensure accuracy and validity.

- Model Verification and Validation: Here you confirm the model is behaving as intended and confirm that all the requirements and features has been duly met. You can have the opportunity to iterate until you are satisfied that the verification and validation has been fully met.

- Model Usage and Interpretation:  At this stage, we can apply the model as a test run, with aim of answering questions, making predictions or making informed decisions. This is also the phase where you analysis the output and draw conclusion, which you would communicate with the stakeholders in a very clear and concise presentation.

- Model Maintence and Revision: Here you are left to monitor the overall performance of the model. While taking notes and documenting the entire process for future traceability, this is the stage where updates and revisings are being made in other to keep the model as relevant as possible.


LETS TALK ABOUT THE QUEUING MODELS
First of all the queuing theory
generally the theory is just when waiting lines are mathematically studied

the whole idea of the model is the predict the queuing waiting line and the length of the queues

KEY COMPONENTS OF QUEUE MODELS
- Arrive Process: This refers to the process in which an Entity such as Customers or Jobs arrive at a queue, which is usually described by their probability distribution such as Exponential, Poisson
- Server System: This refers to the mechanism that handles requests, its capacity and service time distribution.
- Queue Capacity: This defines the number of entiies allowed in a queue.
- Queue Discipline: This defines form or order in which entities enter or join a queue (FIFO,LIFO, priority based)
- Performance Metric: This measure performances such as waiting time, queue length, server utilization etc, with the aim of evaluating and improving the system's performance

LEARN THE FORMAT IN WHICH MODELS ARE READ
M/M/M
The first M is read as Arrival Process
The 2nd M is read as Exponential Service tIme
The Last M is read as Queue Capacity

This is properly explained as the Kandell's Notions

COMMON TYPES OF QUEUING MODELS:
M/M/1 - This type of queuing model is explained to be the most basic of all models by having the Poisson Arrival, the Exponential Service time and Only one server.  It is applied in Simple service systems such as  bank tellers and call centers with short calls.

M/M/c - This is similar to the M/M/c, where the only difference is having c identical server.  It is applied in systems with multiple parallel servers like checkout counters and web servers with parallel connections.

M/M/∞ - Similar like the above but has infinite number of servers instead. It is theoritical model used for understanding server utilization and bottleneck analysis.

G/M/1 - This type of model Generalizes the Arrival Time distribution, with Only one server. It is applied for scheduling appointments.

M/G/1 - This type of model is known to Generalize the Service Time distribution, with Only one server

NOW  LETS LIST THE TYPES OF MODES OF NODES

Single Queue Node: This model connects a node with 2 or more servers
Here in the single queue node which has 3 servers, lets take an instance that the server a is free and ready to accept a job, while server b is already occupied, which means it would take some time for the server to be done with the job, but meanwhile, server c just completed a job, hence it is serving out the result and making itself available for a new job to commence, which hence makes it the ideal candidate or server to take in a new job.

When explaining the Single Queue Node, always take the idea of a cashier and customer reference.

Note: when a customer leaves immediately it notices that the cashier or server is busy is called or referred to as a No-buffer, while the process where the customer has a waiting area is called as referred to as a queue with a buffer... the amount of numbers in the idea of waiting space and the queue is identified as n, respectively.

Now the behavour of this queuning node is called a birth-death process. The idea behind it is the arrival and departure of jobs from the queue, also including the amount of jobs that has been current in the system.

LITTLE'S LAW EXPLAINED
The trick in understanding and remembering the Little's Law, is by simply remembering the formular and what each symbol in the formular represents. That's all.


When theoritically explaining the formular of little's law, it is deduced as: Little's law states that the average number of item in the system is equal to the Average arrival rate of items multiplied by the average number of time an item spends in a system.

Mathematically, it is represented as:
L = λW

Where L is the Average number of items in a system
λ is the Average Arrival rate of items
W is the Average number an item spends in a system


LET'S MATHEMATICALLY USE LITTLE'S LAW TO SOLVE A PROBLEM
Question: Suppose we have a fast-food restaurant with a single line and multiple cash registers. On average, 30 customers arrive per hour, and the average time a customer spends in the restaurant (from joining the line to completing the order) is 10 minutes. Calculate the average number of customers in the restaurant at any given time

Solution:
using L = λW

L = ? (This is what we are trying to calculate)
W = 10 (the time has to always be in hours, so lets convert it to hours which is 10/60) 
λ = since this means the arrival rate, 30 customer per hours means the rate of arrival

L = 30 * (10/60)
L = 5

Hence the average number of customers in the resturant at any given time is 5 customers at average.


HERE ARE SOME OF THE IMPLICATIONS AS WELL AS THE APPLICATIONS OF LITTLE'S LAW
- Predicting Queue Length: Once we are able to know the arrival rate and service time, we can forcast the average number of items waiting which would help us understand how to share resources and enhance capacity planning.

- Identifying Bottlenecks: When queue length gets high, its a sign that a system would encounter bottlenecks (which means congestion), this is where little's law plays a role. Little's law can help identify where service time needs to be reduced, in order to decrease congestion.

- Balancing trade-offs: Reducing service time might increase arrival rate due to faster processing. Hence Little's law helps evaluate these trade-off, quantitatively.

- Performance Monitoring: When it comes to performance metrics, by tracking the little's symbols, which are L, λ and W, we can monitor the performance of the system

LITTLE'S LAW LIMITATIOS AND ASSUMPTIONS
- Steady-state: This means the law only applies to a stable state where arrival and service rate remains constant over time.

- Finite Queue: The basic queue considers an infinite queue capacity, meanwhile most variations consider a finite queue capacity.

- Single Class of Items: This means that the law applies to only one variety or one type of item which is undergoing the same process.


THE KENDALL'S NOTION
The idea of the Kendall's notion is whats generally used to explain the Single queue node with the A/S/c form, where  A denotes the distribution of duration of each job or arrival in the queue, the S denotes the dispering or distribution of server time , and the c refers to the number of servers present in the node.
So basically, the Kendall Notation is more of a shorthand way to describe the types of queuing models


SIMPLE TWO-EQUATION QUEUE
This is understood to being the model  or queuing structure

QUEUING MODEL KEY COMPONENTS
Arrival Process: This explains how a customer or entity arrives to a system (Randomly, Periodically, etc)
Queuing Discipline: This one defines the order in which customers or entities are being served (FIFO, LIFO, priority-based, First In-Random out, etc)

Service Mechanism: This defines the type of service means to be rendered.
Queue Capacity: This defines the maximum amount of customers or entities allowed to be on a queue whether its finite or infinite.
Performance Measures: This should be understood as metric of interest which would boost over all performance such as waiting time, queue length, server utilization


APPLICATION OF QUEUING MODELS
Designing efficient service systems: 
Capacity Planning:
Performance Evaluation:
Risk Assessement:


Explaining Queuing Discipline:
First In First Out (FIFO): This discipline follows the pattern which suggests that the First Client or customer to walk in would be the first who would be attended
 
Last In First Out(LIFO): This discipline follows the patern which suggest that the Last customer to come in would be the First to be attended to.

Priority Queues:  This discipline suggests that customers are assigned priority, and the customer with the highest level of priority gets served or attended first.

Shortest Processing Time(SPT): This discipline guarantees the customer with the shortest time to have their request processed would be the customer to be attended to first, now this is regardless of the time of arrival.

Round Robin: Taking the word round for its meaning, this discipline suggests that customers are attended to in a circular manner/fashion, where they are assigned an individual amount of service time, and then sent to the back of the queue.

Queue Capacity:
Finite Queue: This is a type of queue capacity that has limited amount of availiable spaces in the queue.. This means when the capacity has been filled up, the customers are rejected.

Infinite Queue: In this type of queue capacity suggests that there is no limit to the available spaces. Which means the capacity can accomodate any amount of customers.

Open queues: This type of queue capacity defines a system where the customers are free to enter or leave the queue whenever they wish..
Closed Queues: This type of queue capacity suggests that customers cant just leave the system when they wish because the number of customers in the system is fixed.



